Logan Pearce (she/her): Okay, it's recording.
Hi. So
Logan Pearce (she/her): i'm Logan. You probably know me already, and fury is here. We
Logan Pearce (she/her): I was going to host the academic
Logan Pearce (she/her): tools for research tools, workshop.
Logan Pearce (she/her): Nobody was able to make it, which is fine. So what i'm gonna do instead is just record
Logan Pearce (she/her): me showing off the tools that I use in my research, and if you're I can do some of the things he uses, and then just call it.
Logan Pearce (she/her): We call it that.
Yeah. So I posted some things on the
Logan Pearce (she/her): classroom
Logan Pearce (she/her): of just stuff that I was gonna share about. So i'm just gonna walk through those and tell you
Logan Pearce (she/her): why I like them, and what I use and
Logan Pearce (she/her): how it's helpful.
But yeah.
Logan Pearce (she/her): So i'm going to share my screen.
Logan Pearce (she/her): And yeah, this doesn't have to be formal or anything. So you already just, you know, pipe up a few.
Logan Pearce (she/her): So
Logan Pearce (she/her): the the goal of this is to share tools that I that I use for
Logan Pearce (she/her): can engaging with literature in my research.
Logan Pearce (she/her): because.
Logan Pearce (she/her): like managing an academic library, and like being sure I can find all the papers how to find all the papers. I need how to
Logan Pearce (she/her): keep track of all the papers and what they do and manage a bibliography, and all of that. It can get really overwhelming really quickly.
Logan Pearce (she/her): So first of all, for finding
Logan Pearce (she/her): relevant papers.
Logan Pearce (she/her): Google Scholar is like, I I think, probably the preeminent tool for this. I actually don't use Google scholar because i'm in astrophysics field, and we actually use
Logan Pearce (she/her): this thing called a and NASA ads to ask your physics data system
Logan Pearce (she/her): for searching papers and it's. Fantastic, and I love it. But
Logan Pearce (she/her): you're seeing my screen right.
fioravanti: Let me see you.
Logan Pearce (she/her): You see my screen.
Logan Pearce (she/her): but it's only a relevant to us astronomy and physics. So i'm going to show you how to do the same kinds of things that I do with ads with Google Scholar.
Logan Pearce (she/her): S0 0kay, so with Google scholar, you want to make a profile.
Logan Pearce (she/her): so I made myself a profile. This is definitely something that you want to do with.
Logan Pearce (she/her): You know my name, my picture. This is a silly picture of telescopes that I use for all of my professional things, because i'm ridiculous. I put in the like fields that I used, and
Logan Pearce (she/her): below I have all of the papers that my name is on. So
these are all papers that I've contributed to like. So, for example. where's one of my papers.
Logan Pearce (she/her): These are all papers by other people that i'm on here. Here's one of mine so like here's my here's my name, you know, and I can see
Logan Pearce (she/her): the year, and that 28 people have cited this paper. That's kind of crazy.
Logan Pearce (she/her): I could see who cited my paper.
Logan Pearce (she/her): even if you Don't have any papers. It's a good thing to make a profile even like this doesn't just have papers that I've written. This also has like conference proceedings
Logan Pearce (she/her): like.
where's one? This one is this one was part of
Logan Pearce (she/her): the Spi Conference, so like those kind of things are on there, too, so you you can find those things on Google Scholar
Logan Pearce (she/her): and add them to your
Logan Pearce (she/her): to your library or your profile, and then people can follow you and stuff. So this is so that people can find you and find your work. and if you have a website you can link
Logan Pearce (she/her): to this. S0 0n my website. Here's my website
Logan Pearce (she/her): on my website.
Here are my pop publications. I have it links straight to my ads library, right?
Logan Pearce (she/her): Which is the same thing as like the profile on Google Scholar. So this way: if people want to know the science that I've done it's like right there on my website.
Logan Pearce (she/her): a publication list for me. And I did the same over here at Google Scholar.
Logan Pearce (she/her): just to show you all, even though I don't actually
okay. So how do you do that? So let's say.
Logan Pearce (she/her): I want to find earlier. I looked up non interacting polluted white our binaries because that science that I do. So I put in a topic from science that I do polluted by door finders.
Logan Pearce (she/her): I don't see that are too interesting to me. But let's say one thing I don't like about Google Scholar
Logan Pearce (she/her): is that this is not in a good order like this. 1,994 paper is the first result. whereas like this 2,020 paper is below.
Logan Pearce (she/her): I don't love that.
Logan Pearce (she/her): I I don't know. But anyway.
let's say I wanted to. I'm interested in this paper
Logan Pearce (she/her): click on it, and it takes me to the paper. I'm: I'm: not on school.
Logan Pearce (she/her): So I don't know if i'm going to be able to access this or I can access it. Okay.
But yeah, so there's the paper.
Logan Pearce (she/her): So if I want to save it to my library. I can click on, save. So the star button.
Logan Pearce (she/her): I made a polluted white dwarfs library. So any papers that relate to polluted white dwarfs go in there done now when I go to my library.
Logan Pearce (she/her): There's that paper that I collected.
Logan Pearce (she/her): So this is a way to like, collect and organized papers within Google Scholar
fioravanti: that are relevant. That's great
Logan Pearce (she/her): and stuff.
Logan Pearce (she/her): I wish that it came out as
Logan Pearce (she/her): date order, though not well.
And then there's one more thing export all, so you can actually export
Logan Pearce (she/her): the bibliography.
Logan Pearce (she/her): So if I want to make it a Csd. That's a comma separated values. File.
Logan Pearce (she/her): You see what that looks like.
Logan Pearce (she/her): So here's the export that I just did with all of the bibliography information right there.
Logan Pearce (she/her): So if I had, like a whole list of papers that i'd collect it. I can export them all at once, and end up with a
Logan Pearce (she/her): with the bibliography right there.
Logan Pearce (she/her): So that's pretty cool.
fioravanti: That's beautiful.
Logan Pearce (she/her): And when I, when I made the profile
Logan Pearce (she/her): when I made my profile it automatically searched for papers that had my name in it. So these popped up automatically to me, and I had to say, Yes, that's mine or no, it's not
Logan Pearce (she/her): when I made my profile.
Logan Pearce (she/her): I've done so much good work.
Logan Pearce (she/her): not
Logan Pearce (she/her): most of these are. I did not write myself. Most of these are like small contributions t0 0ther People's papers
Logan Pearce (she/her): like this: One is a
Logan Pearce (she/her): This one's first author I have
Logan Pearce (she/her): for almost 5. First off the papers. Here's the first author. Paper.
There's more. But yeah, here's another one
fioravanti: I got at 4, almost 5 working on the fifth one.
Logan Pearce (she/her): I just resubmitted it to be like No, it shouldn't be rejected.
fioravanti: That's you know, People don't realize that that actually does work sometimes.
fioravanti: Well, yeah, we have a strong case for why it should be
Logan Pearce (she/her): Well, anyway, that's Google Scholar. Okay.
Logan Pearce (she/her): I think it's. So you can make your own library, which is really cool.
Logan Pearce (she/her): You can export your citations.
Logan Pearce (she/her): or you can just see if I just clicked on the site button, and it gave me citations in all these different formats. So if you need Mla
Logan Pearce (she/her): or Apa. or whatever
it's right there, which is great.
Logan Pearce (she/her): so you can just copy paste.
Logan Pearce (she/her): and then make a profile and link to it from your website, or your Cv. Or
Logan Pearce (she/her): your Twitter, or whatever you use to like. Advertise yourself as an academic
Logan Pearce (she/her): like to your profile.
Logan Pearce (she/her): so people can find you.
Okay?
Logan Pearce (she/her): Oh, I forgot about another tool. I forgot about Mark, Id.
Logan Pearce (she/her): anyway. for kid.
Logan Pearce (she/her): So Zotero is a paper or a citation management system.
Logan Pearce (she/her): There are other ones that are similar. There's mentally which is run by elsewhere.
fioravanti: Yes.
Logan Pearce (she/her): and then there's papers which cost money
Logan Pearce (she/her): so middle and so Terra. Both have free versions. Papers does not have a free version. There's one called Papership. I think that's an ipad app.
Logan Pearce (she/her): So this is all of my papers that I've wanted to save for some reason.
Logan Pearce (she/her): and I have him ordered by author, because usually
Logan Pearce (she/her): I want to look you. Usually things are referenced by first authors name, so I, that's usually how I want to find things.
Logan Pearce (she/her): and so if I have a paper that I want to see, I can just double click on it. and it pops up in a pdf
Logan Pearce (she/her): in the within this Ottero app.
Logan Pearce (she/her): and I can read it
Logan Pearce (she/her): and see everything I need to see. I can also highlight things
Logan Pearce (she/her): and and make comments. If I want.
Logan Pearce (she/her): I don't need this, though, so I delete it. and it's so. Taro syncs to the cloud so I can access so taro from a browser. I can access my zotero library from a browser, or from a
Logan Pearce (she/her): from another device.
and all of my annotations and stuff will will come with it.
Logan Pearce (she/her): You can also, but it also downloads a local copy. So if I right click on this, I can say
Logan Pearce (she/her): show file, and it will show me
Logan Pearce (she/her): the the Pdf. And I can like, if I need to like, send it to somebody or something
fioravanti: that's great.
I can send that up the Pdf. To a friend or something.
fioravanti: My question is the thing that a lot of my students
fioravanti: we're asking about was like, Does it generate a bibliography?
Logan Pearce (she/her): So I also made all these folders to to categorize things, and all I have to do is like drag and drop.
Logan Pearce (she/her): I could just drag from my library and drop it int0 0ne of the folders. I'm not gonna do that because I don't want them in there. But then I can look at. So if I want to see back to pulled it in white dwarfs. I want to see all my polluted white door papers.
Logan Pearce (she/her): I have them all
in this little folder.
Logan Pearce (she/her): and I, you know I I made you. Oh, and you can also drag
Logan Pearce (she/her): then into multiple folders. So if one paper addresses multiple different topics that I I wanted to categorize it as I can drop.
Logan Pearce (she/her): I can drag and drop them into multiple folders.
Logan Pearce (she/her): and
Logan Pearce (she/her): and they also have a browser
Logan Pearce (she/her): plug in. So if I go back to here, where I was looking at this paper. If I want to add this paper
Logan Pearce (she/her): to my zotero, I can just click on the
Logan Pearce (she/her): the save to zotero browser
Logan Pearce (she/her): plug in
Logan Pearce (she/her): so it I it's saving in my polluted white doors folder. I can pick which one I want, but this is a
Logan Pearce (she/her): there it is there? It is right there, there's the paper. I saved it.
fioravanti: Wow!
Logan Pearce (she/her): You can. Why is this Here, Go, stop, stop.
Logan Pearce (she/her): go away!
Logan Pearce (she/her): Okay.
fioravanti: But now you need a robot to tell you. Go back and read. Now.
Logan Pearce (she/her): Well, do you see that I have this to read? Folder.
fioravanti: Yeah, I I noticed that
Logan Pearce (she/her): that that's way out of date. I can't even do that.
Logan Pearce (she/her): And then okay, and then you can also for each of these collections you can creative bibliography.
Logan Pearce (she/her): That's what I want to know create a bibliography. It asks you for the file type or the type.
Logan Pearce (she/her): so I don't.
fioravanti: I don't know which one I don't use this. I don't use good luck fees this way. But
Logan Pearce (she/her): is that this one
fioravanti: that'll be good? Chicago's good.
Logan Pearce (she/her): Okay. Is that what Apa stands for? You learn something every day. Yeah. And so then you can export. So I've I've exported. So with this I've I've exported all of the
Logan Pearce (she/her): ones that I am in that that are in that folder. So it's not my whole library. It's just the ones I put in that folder.
fioravanti: Okay.
Logan Pearce (she/her): you can also
Logan Pearce (she/her): do.
fioravanti: But can you control it? Okay, Can you go into that folder and just select and then create a bibliography like, so you have so many different texts in there. Yeah. So if I do, if I just pick on one, I can, I can create a bit like a fee for one item.
fioravanti: right? Right? That's that's so great. Yeah.
Logan Pearce (she/her): And if you use Latex, I use Latex for writing, and if you don't know what that is, Don't worry about it.
Logan Pearce (she/her): which a lot of physical sciences do you can also use. You can also generate your vib tech file from this, too.
Logan Pearce (she/her): So
Logan Pearce (she/her): okay. oh.
Logan Pearce (she/her): more about. So Taro. They also just came out with a
with an ipad app.
Logan Pearce (she/her): Show that.
Logan Pearce (she/her): hey? So they also have an ipad app. So in my I can click on my zotero ipad app. and all of my stuff is here. So if I go to the included white dwarfs.
Logan Pearce (she/her): I can, if I want to read a paper. it downloads from the cloud. Open the paper I can
Logan Pearce (she/her): draw on it. I can highlight things. etc., on my ipad. and then that will sync to my computer and i'll be able to see my annotations on the computer.
Right?
fioravanti: So another question is
fioravanti: when you're when you're at. So these are all articles. Most of these are articles. So say you're entering a book, right? So the question is, you know
fioravanti: I I may not have the right addition. I may just see, like a citation somewhere.
It may be like such a popular book. It has like tons of versions and addition. So how do you pull down a book citation. It does not like. What's your practice for that?
Logan Pearce (she/her): Oh, I don't. Hello!
Logan Pearce (she/her): I don't. I don't deal with that
Logan Pearce (she/her): so I can. That's a bad time.
fioravanti: this phone call I've been waiting for all day, and it's putting in now.
Logan Pearce (she/her): Hi relyn no worries
Logan Pearce (she/her): I, and just going through, since since nobody else was here. I was just been talking with Fiore about
Logan Pearce (she/her): the tools that I use, and i'm recording it so that it will be available to members. Yeah, so please feel free to jump in with questions
Logan Pearce (she/her): or comments, or thoughts, or whatever on whatever we're going over.
Logan Pearce (she/her): I help make it. What's what's your background, Logan. So i'm an astronomer.
Logan Pearce (she/her): Physical sciences side of it, and Fiore is coming from our humanities. Guy: yeah. So we have. You know, the disciplines have very different norms. And so we have very different
Roslyn Grizzard: takes on on on this. So it's good to get both. It's really weird, because I am probably one of those people that use both sides of that.
Roslyn Grizzard: Yeah, but I love literature, and I love all the humanity stuff. And so sometimes that's just like crazy. So so that's what I did in the Navy. I was the nuclear officer. Okay, cool. Yeah.
Roslyn Grizzard: Crafts. I got out of 94. And so they were just putting them now, then, on aircraft carriers, Gotcha! I got out right before they put women on submarines, so so there are women on submarines right now. Last I heard there were officers, but not enlisted.
Logan Pearce (she/her): I can't imagine them retrofitting or trying to fit Well, Exactly so. That's why they do did it with officers, because you can. They have their state rooms. They can just have a couple of people. So my the first ship I was on was a forget, and they actually had the same thing. We we didn't have any enlisted women, because it was too small to like retrofit like huge birthings for like 100.
fioravanti: Wow.
anyway.
Logan Pearce (she/her): So that's why I love Zotero. It's the best.
Logan Pearce (she/her): I also have. Share my screen again.
I also have
Logan Pearce (she/her): my digitized notes in here from
classes like
Logan Pearce (she/her): like this is notes that I took in class.
Logan Pearce (she/her): I just took pictures or I scanned it. Sorry when I scanned it with an ipad. Iphone scan app
fioravanti: yeah
Logan Pearce (she/her): to digitize my notes, and so I have those in here, so I can access them from everywhere.
fioravanti: I have people's slides like
Logan Pearce (she/her): Here's some slides on stuff I needed to know, you know.
Logan Pearce (she/her): so
Logan Pearce (she/her): you can also save snapshots of web pages.
Logan Pearce (she/her): So I, for example, if I go down here.
Logan Pearce (she/her): I like, here's some things that I needed that were quick references so like
Logan Pearce (she/her): that did not open up the shared screen.
Logan Pearce (she/her): So this is so. I saved a snapshot of this web page if I needed to look up this information again
Logan Pearce (she/her): on this star. This is stuff about a star, so I saved like this. And now I have a local copy of this website. So if I needed to look up the Age of the Star
Logan Pearce (she/her): like, I could just get it real quickly, because it's right here, and I wouldn't have to go back and search for it again.
fioravanti: But when you take a snapshot the the the URL is not active anymore there, or is it
Logan Pearce (she/her): okay?
Logan Pearce (she/her): It's opening up in the in a different window.
Logan Pearce (she/her): That's why it's a local file.
Logan Pearce (she/her): But if this is like this is like some reference information that I would.
Logan Pearce (she/her): So, for example.
Logan Pearce (she/her): just go to this website. and with the connector, the browser connector.
Logan Pearce (she/her): we'll save save a snapshot of
Logan Pearce (she/her): go to a website.
Logan Pearce (she/her): This browser connector will save
Logan Pearce (she/her): a snapshot of the of the
fioravanti: website.
fioravanti: It only take me 5 min.
Roslyn Grizzard: Is that okay? Yes, you have. You have.
fioravanti: and I and I typed in it. But I I do. I have a very simple C to show you. I basically like when I do research, or when I encourage my students or clients to do research.
fioravanti: I I try to think of it in terms of
fioravanti: you know, 3 categories. So I have pure semi- pure and very impure. So, so, for example, if I show you here on the share screen, I think I could share. Right.
fioravanti: Yeah. Am I allowed to share
fioravanti: open system, pre open system, preferences, security and privacy? Okay.
Logan Pearce (she/her): I have a new
fioravanti: Yeah.
fioravanti: See if I can find it
Roslyn Grizzard: kind of with you. You're I. I've noticed whenever I have to do writing
Roslyn Grizzard: I prefer hand. I I any day I pre I don't know how this younger generation just tears away on their computer. I can't. I can't do it. It's not comfortable.
Roslyn Grizzard: I can never get in the correct position to right. I can never. It's just this whole
Roslyn Grizzard: thing.
Logan Pearce (she/her): Well, and in my discipline we actually use Latex, which is
Logan Pearce (she/her): like a type setting language. So it's like.
Logan Pearce (she/her): and I can show you my late tech, but it it kind of looks almost like code.
Logan Pearce (she/her): Okay, in addition to writing. But it's for generating like it's a type setting
Logan Pearce (she/her): language.
Roslyn Grizzard: Wait, I have to leave in order to in order to share. So i'm gonna leave and come back.
Roslyn Grizzard: Yeah, so
Logan Pearce (she/her): i'll just
Logan Pearce (she/her): to show you what late tech looks like.
Logan Pearce (she/her): So this is over leaf. It's like Google Docs for
Logan Pearce (she/her): for late. And so here's my paper that i'm
Logan Pearce (she/her): just submitted.
Logan Pearce (she/her): But yeah, it looks like this. So it's like
Logan Pearce (she/her): I'm showing up late tech now.
Logan Pearce (she/her): But yeah, it's a
Logan Pearce (she/her): typesetting language. So yeah, here's so. Here's the
Logan Pearce (she/her): it has red because that I just submitted this, and I had to make changes. So.
for example.
Logan Pearce (she/her): if you just look at citations, so you have this thing called v tech.
Logan Pearce (she/her): which is
Logan Pearce (she/her): the language for bibliographies or for citations. So this all this information is under this tag. This is the tag. So when I cite it in the text.
Logan Pearce (she/her): I just say, site the tag.
Logan Pearce (she/her): and then it generates the in-text citation correctly.
Logan Pearce (she/her): which is all this blue text is the in-text citation, and it automatically generates
Roslyn Grizzard: the bibliography, too. So do you have to take a class to learn that
Logan Pearce (she/her): I got introduced to it in a class
Logan Pearce (she/her): like forced myself to learn it. I just
Logan Pearce (she/her): you can also set. You can also tag figures and tables. So if I so like I've tagged this section, I've given it this label. So if I need to say section whatever later, I just call this tag, I don't have to keep track of like figure, which is, figure one and figure 2. And
Logan Pearce (she/her): is it the right order? And if I change the order, it updates that automatically.
Logan Pearce (she/her): This is standard in my field. Everyone in my Field uses latex to write papers.
Logan Pearce (she/her): you know a lot. I a lot of other fields. Yeah.
Logan Pearce (she/her): like I have a friend who is a geologist, and they write everything in in word. So
Roslyn Grizzard: right.
Logan Pearce (she/her): yeah, it just depends your it depends on what's like the norm in your field.
fioravanti: Well, i'll show I'll show you guys just a little bit.
fioravanti: My daughters are calling me to They They never cook, so that the one time they cook I have to go and eat the terrible food.
fioravanti: But they, you know I've I've I've I've I've I've I've teenaged girls with trying to get them to cook.
fioravanti: So we we they once in a while that makes something you can actually eat. And and i'm like this is what happens.
fioravanti: Cool, all right. So what do you concept of food is different than the food itself. So, anyway, so in the humanities, you know, I I used to do very highly detailed research into critical theory, and you know it has to be all peer-reviewed and stuff.
but I discovered that
fioravanti: it's good to make 3 different categories for me databases that are only peer reviewed and databases that mix and database is that ultra mix, and i'll show you why I mean they they're very. It's very, very simple. It's a very simple system, I still use it.
You know a lot of my clients use it too. So
fioravanti: if if you're in a specific field, then it's much easier. So like in if i'm if i'm working with a client who's in in business studies, there, are you the database for the field is usually the best database right. So here, for example, this is a very expensive database. I can. I can't find it anywhere except
here.
fioravanti: and it's called Business source complete, and the quality of the results is so high.
fioravanti: So there's one for business, majors. You. You show me one for astronomy, which is great, but say, I don't know, so I don't have an amazing database. So when I go to my library site.
fioravanti: the the the the one database that's the cleanest, you know, is J. Store.
fioravanti: so J. Still will get you only high quality peer-reviewed journals in almost all the humanities history, all the way. Through. And so you're accessing this through your Universities Library.
Logan Pearce (she/her): The ability to search all of
Logan Pearce (she/her): the peer-reviewed stuff, too.
Logan Pearce (she/her): Things like viewing minras articles or
Logan Pearce (she/her): minresses. Article in a journal in my Field viewing journals that have paywalls. If I do that from my university Wi-fi, I can access it just fine, because they have
Logan Pearce (she/her): the university pays for it. But if i'm at home like I am right now. I often can't access it because it costs money. So yeah, anyway, i'll have to say, just go through your library and your university's resources to access things that are not free.
Roslyn Grizzard: If you're actively working like I am in health care. Oh, usually I have to go to get around those pay walls. My institutional facility usually has
Roslyn Grizzard: those memberships, I guess. because publications
cool
very. it will spit out things that
fioravanti: are
fioravanti: all the same genre, but a very, very different quality. And so it's up to you as a researcher and as a person in your being deep in your field, you start to understand which is good quality which is not good quality. So the way I get around that
fioravanti: is, I do. I have like these 3 categories. So the pure, impure, and dirty right so, and I kind of, and I kind of use them against each other. So I I usually don't start with the purest one. I don't start with Jay, so I start with one. That's a mix. So this one here is called academic, one file, which is in almost every university.
fioravanti: and it'll give you like a mix of kind of newspapers and and articles. and that's good, because science, when you're so just starting research
fioravanti: you want to make like very high ends, material with kind of like a little newspaper review. Just kind of get a feeling in general of the topic.
fioravanti: The Jason Store and Jason will give me a high quality peer review, like almost every single thing like i'm doing research now on Frankenstein and science. So if I put Frankenstein in here
i'll get.
fioravanti: I'll get only very high quality articles. I don't even have to think about it, because that's the problem with Google Scholar for me. Is that
fioravanti: then I go to a very impure source.
fioravanti: your graphical source. So this is just every single book published in the field, right? So i'll. I'll go to that, or I'll even go to Google, not Google Scholar, but Google, because then it'll mix it up
fioravanti: so much that it. It. It kind of refreshes me right, so I like to start with the one that mixes it a little, this one academic one file.
fioravanti: and then I move up to J Store, and then if I freak out and I don't have enough, then I go just all the way down to like, you know, mixing with the you know, the unwashed masses and do Google just out right. Google. It's a it's just a very simple system.
fioravanti: And then you could lays of terror on top of that
fioravanti: my main problem is finding quality, cause it's so hard to find quality. Because I work for young People. I work with a lot of teenagers, and you have to find really high quality texts like they can tell immediately if your text sucks.
fioravanti: even if it sucks a little bit. They know it immediately.
Roslyn Grizzard: Nice guys are bringing up something pretty interesting because I saw
Roslyn Grizzard: a tick talk last week from a physician, and they were talking about the what is it? Chat, chat?
Roslyn Grizzard: The guy was saying that the references that we're being pulled into this? You know one citation
Roslyn Grizzard: while it looks valid, you know it was. It was just a bunch of garbage.
Logan Pearce (she/her): Well, so here that that leads nicely into another tool. I was gonna share, which is called Research Rabbit or
Logan Pearce (she/her): So Research Rabbit. Here's this risk Research rabbit.
So i'll go ahead and log in, so I can show you mine.
Logan Pearce (she/her): and you can import your zotero.
fioravanti: I can also Tara.
Logan Pearce (she/her): and you can. So it's. So I I've imported my zotero. So here's all of my papers that are in my Zotero library.
Logan Pearce (she/her): and if I pick one paper I can see the connections. It shows me connections t0 0ther papers.
Logan Pearce (she/her): So which one did. I pick
Logan Pearce (she/her): 1 1998. So that's the paper that I picked, and so I can see other papers that are connected to it in some way. So if I pick like this type 2013 is a big big connection, so I can see the
Logan Pearce (she/her): abstract and titles and stuff, and see if it's relevant, you know, and then that connects to this hammer's 2928, and I can see what's up with that one.
Logan Pearce (she/her): and connected papers does something similar. But this is a way to find
Logan Pearce (she/her): some papers. This is the way to find
Logan Pearce (she/her): find new papers, because we were talking about. What did I use for My!
Logan Pearce (she/her): So this is the way to find new papers.
Logan Pearce (she/her): So i'm on connect to papers. Now, if I this is not, have this Ontario connection. But let's say I put in
Logan Pearce (she/her): the title of one of my papers. Where's night.
Logan Pearce (she/her): Tara?
Let me pick a paper.
Logan Pearce (she/her): Sure fine
Logan Pearce (she/her): copy.
Logan Pearce (she/her): Yes.
Logan Pearce (she/her): and then it will generate a
Logan Pearce (she/her): graph, showing
Logan Pearce (she/her): eventually
Logan Pearce (she/her): showing other papers that connect to this paper
Logan Pearce (she/her): find literature that's related to what you're doing. So this one paper connects to this one. I can see the title and the abstract
Logan Pearce (she/her): connects to.
So let's see here
that's actually a book.
Logan Pearce (she/her): Yeah, stuff like that. So
Logan Pearce (she/her): if you're like trying to learn something, learn, you know. Find your papers, learn, learn something new like, get involved in, you know. Dig into a new topic or something.
Logan Pearce (she/her): This is a way to easily find
Logan Pearce (she/her): other relevant papers to whatever you're working on.
fioravanti: That's cool.
Logan Pearce (she/her): but I can turn it off now. They don't have snowflakes on them. I don't know silly.
Logan Pearce (she/her): But yeah. So that's another really great tool
Logan Pearce (she/her): for finding papers.
Roslyn Grizzard: Probably gonna use that tonight. Awesome and research rabbit like I said connects to my zotero. So I can do it
Logan Pearce (she/her): through
Logan Pearce (she/her): through my library that I've already built.
Logan Pearce (she/her): and you can generate citations and stuff just like you can through so taro
fioravanti: beautiful.
Logan Pearce (she/her): Well, i'm heading out to dinner.
Logan Pearce (she/her): I follow following academics and academics that have like they'll often have like
fioravanti: alright, guys good.
Logan Pearce (she/her): So the last like, really?
Logan Pearce (she/her): Well, I don't know I was also going to talk about archive.
Logan Pearce (she/her): So archive is a pre-print service so
Logan Pearce (she/her): this particular version, is only for like
Logan Pearce (she/her): physics, math, astronomy. statistics, economics so. But
Logan Pearce (she/her): whatever your field is, there's probably some kind of pre print service for for articles in your field. I don't. I don't know what it is, but this is the one that I use.
Logan Pearce (she/her): So
Logan Pearce (she/her): it a pre print service, just like
Logan Pearce (she/her): let's people post
Logan Pearce (she/her): versions of their paper before they are published in the journals
Logan Pearce (she/her): current. It's kind of like a feed of current papers.
Logan Pearce (she/her): So like I just clicked on Earth and planetary actually, because that's one of the one of those subjects that I follow on. Okay. And so these are all the papers that were posted
Logan Pearce (she/her): today.
Logan Pearce (she/her): Or yeah, that's today in under this field under this subject, so
Logan Pearce (she/her): like I can see
Logan Pearce (she/her): the newest things that have just come out or are coming out. This is a pre print, so it's before they're like published. Published. Usually people post it once it's been accepted to a journal, but before it's been published in the journal.
so that they can solicit feedback from the community
Logan Pearce (she/her): before it gets accepted. But so, for example, this is actually a paper i'm interested in. This is actually relevant to me. Actually know these people, but so I can see a Pdf. Of the paper. I can read it. I can read the abstract.
Logan Pearce (she/her): Yeah. So I can see the the paper, read it
Logan Pearce (she/her): and the abstract, and then this one has been submitted. It has not been accepted to the journal.
Logan Pearce (she/her): But this is a good.
Logan Pearce (she/her): This is actually an interesting paper that I need to read. But
Logan Pearce (she/her): and I can also like, see it on Google Scholar. I can see it on ads, which is the service that I use instead of Google Solar. I can see the citation. I can get all that stuff.
Logan Pearce (she/her): this
Logan Pearce (she/her): all this also you could also sign up for digest emails. So every night at like
Logan Pearce (she/her): 9 Pm. I get an email of tomorrow's papers
Logan Pearce (she/her): through the digest email to see if anything is interesting, and I wanted to read more about. So
Logan Pearce (she/her): I understand that this is an archive is not relevant to most people. But whatever field you're in, I bet there's some kind of pre print service like this.
Roslyn Grizzard: But this is kind of the way to like. Stay on top of the latest. I like that. I used to always complain because I felt like some of my radiologists.
Roslyn Grizzard: I like to read white papers. I like to know what was going on in my field, and
Roslyn Grizzard: I would go, and I would talk to them, and they would like be like what?
Roslyn Grizzard: S0 0bviously to me they were probably people who were subscribing to that. But I I was like what's the newest? Not necessarily the newest, but the most relevant. And you know what's going on right now, so
Logan Pearce (she/her): you could, probably I'm sure. There's a way through Google Scholar to sign up for alerts and stuff, too. I didn't even know about Google Scholar. That was what I talked about before you arrived.
Logan Pearce (she/her): So yeah, I'm going to post the video to the the classroom, so you can check that out.
Logan Pearce (she/her): But Google scholars like a way to search papers and stuff. and i'm sure that there's a way that's
Roslyn Grizzard: a way to set up like a Google alert like you can for search terms.
Logan Pearce (she/her): The last thing I was gonna show is my favorite way to take notes, which is.
Logan Pearce (she/her): I didn't do this early in my in my time. I used paper notes because I also like paper notes, but now I have an ipad and an apple pencil.
Logan Pearce (she/her): because I can do it through my.
Logan Pearce (she/her): there we go. So my good notes.
Logan Pearce (she/her): So it's just like digital notes that I can mark on with my my pencil. So
Logan Pearce (she/her): let me go to my research
Logan Pearce (she/her): and let's do the white doors. Why not?
Logan Pearce (she/her): So I've been reading a whole bunch of papers on White Door pollution.
Logan Pearce (she/her): So here it is.
Logan Pearce (she/her): So you know you have, like all these.
Logan Pearce (she/her): you know, tools for writing, and different colors and highlighting, and all that stuff.
Logan Pearce (she/her): and the racing.
Logan Pearce (she/her): and it's searchable. It searches your handwriting
Logan Pearce (she/her): so I can search.
Logan Pearce (she/her): What is it? Search? So if I want to search for?
Logan Pearce (she/her): So it found like it found this
oops stuff.
Logan Pearce (she/her): It sounds that this is the word companion.
Roslyn Grizzard: Oh, well, it and that's good notes with, yeah.
Logan Pearce (she/her): And I like you can see that I have like.
Logan Pearce (she/her): like this plot. Here. I screenshoted it on my
Logan Pearce (she/her): macbook, and I air dropped it to my ipad so I can put it right in there, and then I could draw on it, as you can see I did here. I drew on it
Logan Pearce (she/her): so.
Logan Pearce (she/her): and then finally
Logan Pearce (she/her): you can
Logan Pearce (she/her): export it 2. Wait for it.
Logan Pearce (she/her): export it to Zotero.
Logan Pearce (she/her): It takes a long time. This is actually a big exile.
Logan Pearce (she/her): Let me do a less big one.
a small
anything.
Logan Pearce (she/her): Okay? So I can export it 2.
Logan Pearce (she/her): So Tara
Logan Pearce (she/her): and I'm going to put it in my good notes, notebooks.
Logan Pearce (she/her): And now I have it accessible in my so taro
Logan Pearce (she/her): on my computer.
Roslyn Grizzard: That's cool, which then allows you to pull it up and all your other.
Logan Pearce (she/her): And this is the one I just said just now.
Roslyn Grizzard: Oh, that no, that's not it. It was this one.
Logan Pearce (she/her): because I just said it today.
Roslyn Grizzard: Okay, yeah.
Logan Pearce (she/her): And now I have my
Logan Pearce (she/her): my good notes handwriting in
Logan Pearce (she/her): in my So Taro and I can access it from any computer anywhere. and it's on the cloud.
Roslyn Grizzard: It makes it really seamless. I like that.
Logan Pearce (she/her): I also got a planner on zoom because I like my Google
Logan Pearce (she/her): Calendar, but I also like writing on a planner.
Roslyn Grizzard: and it can. It can connect to my Google Calendar.
Roslyn Grizzard: I didn't even know good notes had the plan or hang on. Yeah, I I had to pay for the one that connects to my Google. But it was like 15 Bucks.
Logan Pearce (she/her): Barnes and Noble. It would be that much, you know.
Roslyn Grizzard: Yeah, here's my planner.
Logan Pearce (she/her): and then this is where I keep track of the papers to read. Now
Logan Pearce (she/her): these are my papers to read.
Logan Pearce (she/her): but it this this particular one that I bought has like a little. It has this little clock icon right here. and then it loads up my Google Calendar.
Logan Pearce (she/her): And I can add things, and I can add things to my Google Calendar right from the planner.
Roslyn Grizzard: It's pretty cool.
Logan Pearce (she/her): Yeah.
Logan Pearce (she/her): Anyway, those are just some of the productivity tools that I have
Roslyn Grizzard: the I and you know what i'm actually been looking for, and I haven't been able to get any. I haven't been able to find one
Roslyn Grizzard: so far is one that allows me to. I don't know if anybody in school is really tracking that. But how long I'm spending on a particular task
Roslyn Grizzard: they really haven't worked. I've tried manual. I've tried, you know. tactile manual things that I could turn that Still Hasn't worked. So i'm still looking for a system. With that
Logan Pearce (she/her): I I just really use my Google Calendar as a way to
Logan Pearce (she/her): I don't tell myself to do things. But but yeah, I don't. I don't use that that myself.
Roslyn Grizzard: Where you can get a focus. I'll let you focus for 30 min or 60 min, and that's something I knew I found out the other day which I didn't even know existed.
Have you heard of Pomodoro?
Roslyn Grizzard: I've not
Logan Pearce (she/her): so. Let me find the pomodoro technique.
Roslyn Grizzard: It's a productivity technique.
Roslyn Grizzard: The guy who came up with it used a tomato timer
Logan Pearce (she/her): tomatoes.
But the idea with Pomodoro, is that you?
Logan Pearce (she/her): Then you stop for 5 min. so in like, Get up and like leave. even if you're in the flow, you're still supposed to stop
Logan Pearce (she/her): another 25 min. Stop for 5,
Logan Pearce (she/her): and then I think you do that 3 times, and then you have, like a long break like a 30 min break or something.
Logan Pearce (she/her): so it it lets you know you start, and then it counts down, and then it it plays like an alarm at 5 min.
Roslyn Grizzard: or when it when it's done counting, and then it sets for it, it automatically does the short and long pauses.
Logan Pearce (she/her): So I've used this before as a good way. Because, like. if you do one pomodoro, that's an hour and a half. If you d0 2, that's 3 h. you know, of productivity
Roslyn Grizzard: like that. Yeah.
Logan Pearce (she/her): So like. Sometimes I' in the past, like I'm going to do to Pomodora today on
you know this this
Logan Pearce (she/her): writing project, or whatever.
Logan Pearce (she/her): and that gives you a nice goal, because it's like 20. It's only 25 min in a chunk.
Logan Pearce (she/her): you know, and if you just be like. I gotta d0 3 0f them to like, complete my pomodor0 0r whatever That's an hour and a half.
Roslyn Grizzard: Okay? And then you can
Logan Pearce (she/her): go for a walk or something, you know, or you know, and then do a second pomodoro like
Roslyn Grizzard: in the afternoon, you know, one in the morning, one of the afternoon I don't know.
Roslyn Grizzard: especially if you have to write you want it? Yeah, I think that's a good. I i'll try this one.
Logan Pearce (she/her): It's made for writing it's like
Logan Pearce (she/her): designed to get writing tests accomplished
so highly recommend Pomodoro. That works really well.
Roslyn Grizzard: cool. Thanks, Logan. Yeah.
Logan Pearce (she/her): I don't think I have anything else. Do you have any other ideas? Questions?
Logan Pearce (she/her): Yeah. And
Logan Pearce (she/her): whatever your field will probably have, like you already said that we'll probably have, like a field specific way to search references like in astronomy. We have
Logan Pearce (she/her): the NASA Ads system.
Logan Pearce (she/her): So that's all I use. So like, whatever your feel will probably have something field specific.
Roslyn Grizzard: Yeah.
Logan Pearce (she/her): which is what you already mentioned to. So It's all about finding out what
Roslyn Grizzard: that works for your for your sphere, of
Logan Pearce (she/her): how people do it who are
Logan Pearce (she/her): slightly ahead of you in in whatever program you're doing or something. Ask them how they how ask them how they do it. Okay, especially on the pre print service, and really think that that's valuable, and that
Logan Pearce (she/her): there have to be.
Logan Pearce (she/her): Yeah.
Roslyn Grizzard: Well, thank you, ma'am. Yeah, Have a good night. Glad you showed up. Thank you. Bye.